Very happy to introduce Dave Neumann.
Dave Neumann: All right, thank you.
Okay, this year,
like I've given this a few times,
this time I've got a
demonstration program,
but unlike last year where the program
was monolithic and everything was in
there because I wanted you to look in
the program to see how I was doing stuff,
this year I've got a separate framework
that has just about all the main
security stuff pulled out of it.
It's really well documented
and set up with a lot of other
goodies that hopefully make
it production-quality code,
so something you can really
bite your teeth into.
But I also designed it to be extensible.
This talk,
I'm going to go over some points,
kind of like how you might do stuff,
but I'm also going to maybe spend
a little more time on what I did
inside this particular framework to
address some of these kinds of issues.
But this is the first
part of the session.
This is the basic stuff I'm going to be
covering in terms of the granularity,
privacy, resource protection,
authentication, and persistent data
integrity and access control.
One new thing on access control,
last year I also talked about
row-level access control.
This will be talking also about
attribute-level access control on an EO.
So, getting straight to the SSL stuff,
this is a kind of review,
but let me go over it just quick
for those who are new to this thing.
WebObjects generates these partial URLs,
and we do that for a reason.
So we don't hard code URLs to a
particular deployment piece of
information like your web server.
But if you need SSL and you want to
guarantee that it's SSL on a page,
you need this absolute URL.
You need to generate HTTPS,
and sometimes that can be cumbersome.
So let me kind of show you
one of these unexciting demos.
And
I've come down here to
this little test page,
and I've got a secure
hyperlink in a secure form.
Now, at the very bottom here,
it says HTTP,
but the link itself says HTTPS,
even though I'm coming in over HTTP.
That's not a big deal,
so let me just show you the...
[Transcript missing]
All right, so this is a secure form.
Normally I don't just go throw in
an implementation on the screen,
but since this one's so short,
I want to put it up here,
mainly just to give you an idea
of something that you can do
you might not realize you can
do with just regular components.
So this is the source code,
but before I look at that,
let's show you the template for this.
Not much going on, just a form,
this element,
and that content in the middle.
And the declaration file for this
is also pretty straightforward,
but there's that binding in
there called InvokeAction,
and it's taking whatever action
was passed into this component.
And the action is being set to href.
So this actually is how you can actually
separate out the thing that gets invoked
from the URL that represents that thing.
Not many people realize you
can do that with a component.
Okay, and since I can split that
information out in the secure form,
The href I create,
instead of just the default href,
which would have just been this
context component action URL,
I'm taking that and I'm just
appending HTTPS plus a host name,
which I get as a binding passed in.
The same thing happens with hyperlink.
OK.
So, OK, enough of that.
Back to the slides.
Thank you.
Now having gone through all that,
I actually think a better way to
do SSL is through redirection.
The strategy that I talked
about previously is you
determine some page privacy,
and if a page decides
it should be private,
it performs a redirection.
I've also seen a lot of different
implementations of this where when people
did that they had these side effects
because they generated the page twice,
or they invoked the action twice.
What I mean by that,
this redirection technique,
is they came in over HTTP,
and the naive way to do this is
just take a look at the URL that's
in the current world request and
just throw back a redirect page
and set that URL of the redirect to
the exact same URL you came in on.
What I do in the framework is
if you come in over HTTP and the
page decides it should be private,
you're going to have to do a redirection.
It redirects you not to
the action it came in,
but to a special direct
action called SSL return.
That action goes and recovers the page
and then tells it to render itself.
The page never even renders,
and the action that called it will
never get invoked twice with the
setup in the framework I've got.
There's a lot of other
ways you can do it,
Now, I don't have any silver
bullets for detecting SSL.
I basically do this kind of
algorithm inside the framework.
I look for certain headers,
certain things at a port.
But a given deployment's going to
have a different way of doing this.
So I've basically set it up so
in the framework you can specify
and override how it's doing it,
and augment this with maybe your own
custom thing specific to your site.
Maybe you don't have any headers.
Maybe you run SSL on a certain port,
or maybe you do have certain headers.
Whatever.
However you get it,
that's sort of factored
out from the rest of it.
So back over to this box.
Thanks.
All right.
Now, just show it in action here.
This page right now is
currently over HTTP,
and I want to go to the login page.
OK.
So
The link that took me to
that page was an HTTP link,
but when the page rendered,
you see I'm under a secure request.
Now you can kind of get into
a philosophical argument.
I could have just come into
this page over HTTP or HTTPS,
might not matter,
and I might make this form
in here a secure form,
using that widget I just showed you a
minute ago where the URL embedded in the
form is an absolute URL with HTTPS on it,
and that would guarantee that the
stuff in these text fields would
get sent to the server securely.
But the user isn't convinced of that.
The user doesn't know he's in SSL.
So I would argue that you would always
want to use a redirect technique.
So if you weren't in HTTP already,
you'd want to make sure you
were in HTTP just for the
user's own feedback purpose.
So they would look at the
browser and they'd go,
yeah, I see the little key,
I see the blue bar,
I see HTTPS in the URL, I'm comfortable,
I'm about to put my credit card or
my credentials in over a secure link.
So the way this gets set up in
this particular application.
Thank you.
In the SecureStore,
which by the way is a full-blown,
lightweight commerce application,
so it's more than just a demo.
I tried to actually be kind
of thorough in most things,
use some best practices where I could,
so it would be not just a toy.
But up here in this configuration file,
this policy config file,
there's this section here.
And up there is the
policy that I established.
Should deny all pages not in SSL mode.
And right now it's set to no.
And then all the pages to deny,
not in SSL mode.
So my login page, checkout page,
account edit page, account sign-up page,
those four guys will not render
unless you come in over secure.
And another flip down here,
these settings,
should redirect to SSL URL,
SSL web server host name.
Those are the guys that tell you,
should I just show an access denied page,
or should I actually show
an access denied page?
And then I can actually attempt to get
them to HTTPS by that redirect technique.
So the pages on the application here,
in the application,
are oblivious to all this goings on.
They just have been configured that way.
But there is an API on the pages so
that if you implement certain methods,
if you're not happy with the
granularity of having stuff in a list,
you can implement some methods in your
pages that can make that determination
whether things should be over SSL or not.
So, that's that.
Back to these.
Okay.
If you're using SSL to begin with,
the odds of someone hijacking
your session are actually
pretty remote because someone
has to be over your shoulder.
I was talking to someone right at
the beginning of this talk about how
unlikely it would be to have someone not
notice them writing down your session
ID onto a piece of paper behind them
and then going off to another machine.
Although these days,
since digital cameras are so small,
actually it isn't entirely
impossible for someone to come
behind you and snap a picture,
and if that session ID is
anywhere on the system,
they could in fact go to some
other box and pretend to be you.
There's various ways to handle this.
The way I handle it in the framework,
and it's turned on... Can I have
the demo machine again?
Sorry.
Thanks.
The way I do it in this application
is I've got a flag down here,
"Should enable session
hijacking protection."
And actually,
I'm kind of competing with the
API to have the longest key
name in the configuration file.
Right now, I've got it set to yes,
which means on every request,
it checks for this cookie.
And that cookie is only emitted
if you successfully log in.
If you successfully log into the system,
it emits this thing.
And even though cookies can be spoofed
and IP addresses can be spoofed,
it just makes it a little bit harder
for someone to grab that session ID,
go to some other machine,
and get in and pretend to be you
without having to authenticate.
So that's it for that.
So back to...
Okay, so protecting world resources.
These are like the most important...
What are world resources?
They're your pages, your direct actions.
That's the kind of stuff I mean by that.
And...
Whoa.
Oh, OK.
Someone--that's a resource to protect.
OK.
OK, I don't--my wife must
have got into my slides,
so...
Okay, sorry about that.
See, I did get my kids in my slides.
Okay.
So in addition to those resources,
if you're protecting pages,
you want to override append to response.
And if you're protecting page creation,
you'd override page with name.
And if you're protecting--let me zip
right ahead here--to direct actions,
you'd override perform action name.
Go back to page generation.
I guess there's some caveats
to the pluses and minuses
of doing this sort of thing.
The way the example framework works,
it takes care of page generation
protection and direct action protection.
What do I mean by that?
This could get more elaborate
than what I did in the framework.
I tried to make it extensible
to do other things,
but essentially I noticed
there's two types of situations.
There's pages you view in an
unauthenticated mode and the pages
you viewed after you've logged in.
In a very similar situation with the SSL,
it'd be nice if you could say,
"These pages are okay to see.
These direct actions are okay to invoke.
But if anyone tries to invoke
this direct action or somehow
tries to get to this page,
they don't have access."
Let me go through the pros and cons here.
When I first did something like this,
the way I did this type of protection
is I overrode page with name,
page creation protection.
And that has one plus in that you don't
invoke the constructor of the page.
So if you had a lot of stuff,
code executing the constructor
of the page that was secure,
you didn't want people executing
it unless they were authenticated
to execute that code,
then it's sort of nice.
But I moved quickly to page generation
protection because it's kind of nice
to actually let the page get created,
just write them in such a way
that you don't do anything
sensitive in the constructor.
And then you've got this thing
with some intelligence that
you can actually ask questions.
You can ask it, should I show you,
or should I hide you,
or should you be in SSL, and whatnot.
Also, if you override page with
name on the application,
and you've got code that's
expecting to get the foobar page,
and you don't hand that page back,
you hand back the error page,
then you're going to get
class cast exceptions,
you're going to get keys that
aren't in the thing that's returned.
You could be breaking code.
So with page generation protection,
the page you ask for is the page you get.
It just doesn't render.
And I don't just render the page,
scroll it away in the session.
And then throw it back later.
The way the framework works,
it never calls super append response,
so nothing on that page renders
unless you're authenticated to do so.
For direct action protection,
I do just go on the name,
just the name of the direct action.
So if someone tries to access
foo/bar or direct action class
name/something like that,
in my abstract class
I override perform action name.
If they're not authenticated,
invoke that direct action.
I route them to a login response.
Actually, something about the...
I'm going to forget this.
I'm just going to say it now.
In the frameworks,
the way I constructed this stuff,
I do have these abstract classes.
I have an abstract direct action class,
an abstract component,
an abstract application.
But you don't have to use
my abstract superclasses.
I set it up so you could have
interfaces for all this stuff.
And I've got all the security meat
for this type of stuff factored out
into a policy object so that if you
have some existing stack of classes,
you can just implement my interface and
call this policy object and basically
glom this framework onto yours with
just a bunch of one-liner methods.
That's something a little
tough to show like this,
but it might be interesting for
anyone who wants to come by afterward.
Now this isn't really, I guess,
a security issue,
but how many times have you had
situations where the user pushes
a button two or three times,
or they backtrack to something,
and you just don't want that thing
to happen more than one time?
It makes sense for them to do it once,
but it doesn't make sense
for them to do it twice,
especially if they're only authenticated
and maybe performed some action once.
So, not in the framework,
but in the example app,
there's some code here for
detecting backtracking.
Actually, maybe a better way to get this
code is to go to Project Wonder,
and they actually have a...
some classes which took from stuff
like this and have an implementation
that detect backtracking,
and then your page can basically
do its own thing based on that.
The thing that I do in the example
app and that you might consider
doing is that if someone backtracks,
you overwrite invoke action on that
page and if you don't call super and
instead just return context page or null,
the action does not invoke.
Nothing happens.
It's just that something benign happens.
The page just refreshes.
What I also do on the
pages where this happens,
I put up a little message that says,
"Please do not backtrack
within the checkout assistant."
So about the resource protection piece,
this section in the configuration
file has the security posture.
It should deny all actions.
Right now that's set to no.
So it's only going to deny
these three direct actions:
the sign-in action,
the one-click checkout, and edit account.
had most of the pages been secure and
there were just exceptions the other way,
you can flip that to a yes and
then just have actions to allow.
On should deny all pages,
that's set to no as well,
and you can see the pages to deny.
I'm demanding authentication
on the checkout page,
the person browser page,
and account edit page, and some others.
Okay, so let me just browse around
here and add some products.
Checkout.
Okay.
I'm not logged in, so... Log in.
Now I am logged in,
and I'm in Shipping Info,
so let me actually cancel out of this,
and mouse around someplace else.
And then it said, "Okay, yeah,
I'm ready to check out
now." And then I check out,
and no authentication gets demanded.
Again, the pages don't know anything
about the login panel.
All they know is that the name of
this page happened to be dropped
in a configuration file somewhere,
and that's what set that up.
A lot of apps
I tried to make it, you know, where the,
your code doesn't even
have to know about it.
So anyway, let's kind of go through
this checkout process.
I tried to backtrack.
I knew that.
It didn't actually backtrack
to that other page.
It just refreshed the checkout
page and gave that to me.
So I'll just complete the purchase.
There's my number.
If I go to my account,
I've got the order right down there.
That's that little deal.
Moving along.
What I kind of demoed a little
bit was FrontGate and OnDemand.
In commerce applications,
you kind of want the OnDemand thing.
You don't want to actually
ask for credentials unless
it's absolutely necessary.
Logging in explicitly, checking out,
viewing your account.
But in some applications,
you've got to have the login.
No matter what they do,
they've got to be authenticated.
But even in that case,
it's still nice to have something like
this framework to protect direct action.
They always have to log in, but...
They can bookmark stuff
deep inside the application,
and they can go back to it later.
They can email it to their buddy
or their friend or their coworker,
and they don't have to go all the
way to the front and follow some big,
long procedure to dial in.
And they have to do all that
just because of authentication.
It's kind of nice to have
something that'll just say,
okay, these actions are protected,
and if you're not logged in, boom,
you'll be prompted.
Otherwise,
you don't have to re-navigate again.
Okay, I think I've covered that.
Okay, and I went ahead and
took care of that one,
too.
So, moving off to this
authentication methods.
There's a lot of different
ways to gather credentials.
HTML page, the HTTP panel,
client certificates.
The framework is set up
to support all of these.
So,
Except biometric.
I don't have a,
I don't ship you a little, you know,
thumb reader.
The most complex one actually
turned out to be this one.
I think if you've got a web app,
I'm really not sure why you'd need this,
except for one reason.
The very last bullet there can
provide element of single sign-on
for a static site and HTML pages.
That's true.
Some people are just required.
They have no choice.
They have to use this panel
because that was a requirement.
So if you do, then it's available.
But the ultimate is really
client-side certificates.
If you have an opportunity to use these,
it's pretty nice because
passwords don't go anywhere.
You don't, as a server vendor,
have to store passwords in your database,
or hashes, I should say.
The only thing going in the clear is
the results of cryptographic operations,
and the only password or passphrase
that's ever introduced to the system
is the one that goes straight into the
user certificate right on the browser.
It never leaves the system.
It never leaves their desktop.
So it's really nice,
and I think this sort of thing
is much more prevalent in
Europe than it is in the States,
but maybe sooner or later more people
will use this kind of thing here.
This stuff is a little
different than passwords.
In a password,
you present these credentials and then
you get proved who you are on the server.
But in this particular case,
the whole SSL protocol
just proves it for you.
The login just happens,
and you don't even see it happening.
You either have access or you don't.
Now this other thing here,
I left up here because I wanted
to stress that a year ago,
you had a lot of work to do to
get a web server running with
SSL and Apache on Mac OS X.
Well now Mac OS X Server,
which I have running on this laptop,
makes it easy.
It's already out of the box,
ready to support SSL.
All I had to do was get some
certificates from certificate authority.
In this case, I went to Thought's website
and got some test certificates.
I didn't have to do anything
with the WebObjects adapter.
They just worked in both the secure
and regular version of Apache.
And also, another really cool thing
is that the Microsoft,
the Apache, the Netscape,
the CGI adapters,
all those adapters do the right thing,
and getting the certificate,
asking for it using API and
the web server to get it from
the web server and pass it.
So a lot of things I had to talk
about last year and code examples
I had to give last year are totally
irrelevant now because it just
works the way it's supposed to.
Okay.
Now, in the module,
the certificate authentication
module that's in the framework,
I do set it up so that the
certificate gets all the way to you.
It doesn't just live in the web server,
but I set it up so the web server can
get it all the way to the application.
In the application,
I have a hook that basically passes
the Sun's X.509 certificate in it.
It's not even the deprecated Sun API.
It's all the brand new APIs.
No more deprecation warnings.
You can do with that certificate
whatever you need to do.
You might not need to do anything,
but what you probably should
do is consult your company's
certificate revocation list or go to
a validation authority to check it.
The more people actually use
this as an authentication method,
the more important this will be.
But since a lot of people don't,
I'll just move along.
Recording login failures.
I guess this can be a lot
more elaborate than just,
did someone try to login and fail?
There's all kinds of things
which might indicate someone is
trying to compromise your system.
But the demo application talks about
just doing it relevant to login.
In essence, what I'm doing in here is,
every time a failure happens,
I just write an intrusion
record to the database.
It's got a date,
it's got a username and an IP address,
and there's some configurable numbers,
like maximum number of failures by IP and
maximum number of failures by username.
Okay, so let me just do that.
I did something like this last
year and I only had one shot at it,
so I'm gonna try and see if
it's more forgiving this time.
Okay, so, sign
If I kept changing the username,
it would fail after a few more.
The reason it's important to do both is
you don't want someone going to a whole
bunch of machines and attacking you,
and you don't want someone
staying on one machine and trying
a bunch of different usernames.
So it's important to have
both the IP and the username.
Although again, people can spoof it,
but hey, we're making it a little bit
harder for them to get in.
Actually, while I got this up,
I'd mentioned this thing works with
I wanted to show you some of the
ways this framework is set up.
If you want to integrate this
stuff with your application,
first of all, these are the login
methods right up here.
There's the HTTP panel login method,
HTML, and certificate.
There's the abstract class,
so you can slam some
more in here if you want.
This is the abstract superclass you
can inherit from for direct actions,
the abstract component class,
the abstract session.
But if you don't have
the luxury of doing that,
you can implement the
interface defined here,
the direct actions and the component
methods and the session methods.
It's also got some
cryptographic utilities,
which I'll get to in a little bit.
Back to this guy.
In the demo,
I don't store passwords in the clear.
I store hashes.
I don't actually need
to recover the password,
I just need to compare it
to which one's coming in.
Whenever an account is created,
the password that's passed in is
hashed and only the hash is stored.
If you know what hashes are,
you look in the database,
you can't recover the
password from the hash.
It just looks like gibberish.
When someone authenticates, I pull it.
I'm
Pull the hash from the database,
hash their incoming thing,
and just do a compare.
But you don't have that luxury with...
Credit cards.
You have to--that's a piece of
information that you actually need
to recover the actual information
in the application to do stuff.
So if you do store credit cards,
you need to encrypt them.
And in my case,
I'm using those cryptographic
utilities to encrypt the credit
cards using a DES triple.
Let me go straight to this,
because I'd rather show you here what's
going on than just talking about it.
Here's the credit card EO.
This thing right here is some accessor
methods I added for convenience.
Decrypted CC number,
set decrypted CC number.
This is the thing that's in the clear.
Well, it comes in over SSL, but still,
it's a readable number.
What it does is, if it's non-null,
it uses this utility
on the CryptoUtilities,
which calls this method here,
and that's implemented using the
cryptographic extensions on the JRE.
[Transcript missing]
So that's probably the next question.
Okay, you've encrypted all this stuff,
but your key's sitting right there.
So if I hack this system,
I've got a database of-and
I hack your database,
and I hack your system,
I get this list of encrypted
credit card numbers.
But if I can get access to that,
I can still encrypt it.
So your kind of point of failure
is this secret key right here.
So the way the industry has-there's
stuff out there for hiding secret keys.
You can use these tokens.
These-Crystallis has one.
Incypher.
There's like several of these
things on the market which
store the key inside some module
which isn't even on your system.
And they have to be like FIPS, whatever,
compliant.
You can't even physically open the
things up without destroying them,
that kind of thing.
Some are just smart cards.
The point is,
if you've got it on the system,
it's not just a file sitting
there you can just pull off.
If someone hacked into
the system remotely,
it'd be very, very difficult for
them to get to the key.
But that leaves us with one other
way of getting at the information.
[Transcript missing]
There's almost no way to stop that,
except one way.
And if you've ever started
up an SSL web server,
at least the version
of iPlanet on Windows,
when you start it up,
by default you have to enter a
passphrase to unlock the secret key
that it's going to use to do SSL.
And the reason they do that is they don't
want any form of password on the machine.
So that means if it
dies and it falls over,
it's going to be a problem.
You've got to have someone on call
with a pager who's going to be able
to resurrect the system by providing
credentials to launch a thing.
I wish I could tell you there
was a better way to do that,
but...
Maybe there is.
Maybe I can do one of those things
where I ask you guys a question,
but it seems like in the industry,
they just say, hey,
provide me some credentials.
You can sometimes do these things
remotely over SSH and whatnot,
but it's sort of a sticky problem.
Yeah, thanks.
Now,
this kind of gets to the meat of things.
I don't want to spend too much
time on-- I'll review this briefly,
but I want to kind of dive
into the code examples.
But this is basically about the degree
of access control after they log in.
Everything I've talked about so far is,
are you logged in or not?
And if you're not, what can you see,
what can't you see?
But now you're logged in.
We've got a user.
It's not some anonymous thing.
We've got a user,
and we've got something you're editing.
So what do you get to do with it?
And these are some examples of
some API you might have or stick
on your EOs that might implement
some of these kinds of rules.
But what's the implementation?
What logic goes into deciding whether
you can see or edit something?
[Transcript missing]
is in the demo.
I've written, actually,
my own access control implementations,
but the one in the demo doesn't
use something like this.
It uses a
This session also covers automatic
connection to pages over SSL to
sites that require privacy,
and access control.
This session also covers automatic
connection to pages over SSL to
sites that require privacy,
and access control.
I'll show that in a second.
Before I get to that,
let me get to this guy.
You've made your EO smart.
Your EOs know whether or not
they can see or edit each other,
but now you have to somehow
present this in the user interface.
This is kind of like the password thing
where you start up the SSL web server.
There's not a slam dunk on this.
You can make the EOs smart.
You can make them know whether or not
they can read and write to each other,
but at some point you need something
to present that information.
Depending on the
How fast just your designer people are,
what they dictate or
what they don't dictate,
it could be a difficult problem.
You could have just conditionals
sprayed all over the place,
depending on what's going on.
But if you could possibly
get away with it,
it's nice to have a
slightly smart component,
like a smart text field or a smart string
that sort of has a woe text field or a
woe string in it that takes a user as
a binding and the other stuff you would
have just handed to the text field and
just renders itself in a different way,
depending on what's going on.
Thank you.
But sometimes it's even worse than that.
Sometimes not only do you
have to protect the given EO,
but even if you have access to
see a certain enterprise object,
maybe you don't have access
to see certain attributes.
In the example in the demo app,
what I have in it,
it shows you an example of
protecting clusters of attributes.
Basically, on a person,
you get to see the address,
the first name, and the last name,
but you need to have...
Access or a- you have to have special
access in order to get to the password
or username or social security number,
that kind of thing.
So, let me show that.
First of all,
let me show you this protected object.
All the EOs in this particular model
that have access control enabled inherit
from this My Protected Object EO.
And here are my primitive-- actually,
the most primitive method
is this one down here.
But from the slide,
you saw can read and can't show.
This has is readable and is writable.
And a person goes in as an argument.
Right beneath that is
the more primitive one,
which takes a user and a
Java Security ACL permission object.
And what I did was I've actually
got a table in this model
The, uh, my permission, which is in EO,
it's stored, it doesn't have very
much in it right now,
uh, just, um, read, write, and upload,
but you can imagine sticking
other permissions in there,
okay, all kinds of different permissions.
Also, there's this MyACL entry,
which has state in it,
but this particular EO implements
the Java ACL interface,
security ACL interface.
and ProtectedObjects does
what it does right here.
All the meat of this,
all the checking and how it determines
whether you have access rights or not,
is done right there in that line
where it asks its ACL implementation
to check a permission.
And that ACL implementation
is constructed right here.
That's a
Java Security ACL permission object.
I didn't even provide the implementation,
really.
I just provided these cover methods,
which then called into this thing.
What does that look like in action?
Let's go to Products.
Okay.
I'm logged in as the administrator,
and he's the current target
for all these ACL things.
And of the things that have
been fetched right now,
what I'm just showing here
for illustration purposes
is what I can do with it,
and the access control
list associated with it.
Unlike the previous version of this,
I've made it a little bit smarter,
so it doesn't just look at the user.
In order to figure out if you can read
or write something for a given user,
it looks at if there's
an ACL for that user,
but also looks at all
the groups the user has,
and then figures it out based on that.
In this particular case, we've got user,
M.
Neumann can upload, or can't upload,
that's what the negative means.
Anyone in the contract group can write.
Anyone in the marketing group can read.
This person called Poulter, a user,
can read, that first guy.
Now, since this particular user, admin,
is in the marketing and contractor group,
that's where I get the read-write from.
So what if I change that?
So let's just take out marketing.
This is a thing right up here,
just a reusable component.
I just made it purely functional.
You might create your
own variation on it,
which looks a little bit prettier.
It's a generic ACL component.
I used to edit ACLs
throughout the system.
Once you've got something like this,
once you're protecting EOs,
you might want to use
it to protect pages.
You might do it this way.
You might have a table
that's pretty simple.
It's just got page names in it.
Hanging off of each of those rows in
that table is an array of ACL entries.
What you can do is you might create a
table in your model using this stuff.
Everything else is pretty much the same.
You add that table,
and like product here,
you add this too-many relationship
to the My ACL Entries table.
Right here.
Boom.
You basically would have some pretty
fancy access control on the pages.
Essentially what I'm saying,
you could subclass my implementation
of this access protection stuff,
call the superclass to do all the
stuff whether you're logged in or not.
But if you are logged in,
you might go one extra step
before showing that page.
You might go and take a look at the user,
because you've got a user now,
and use this information about the page.
Get the page and just see,
does this person have, is it readable,
writable?
All the logic on my protected
object would still work.
Basically, you could go throughout
the application and say,
"Okay, marketing sees these pages.
These guys get to see these
pages." If you're a marketer,
but you're also a contractor,
you don't get to see it.
That kind of stuff.
You could get down to that granularity.
And it really would be pretty easy.
And the pages--the nice
thing is the pages,
we don't even have to know about it.
The only thing that would be changed
would be one method inside this policy
object in order to pull that off,
so.
I guess one last thing I want to show
on this is the attribute level stuff.
So, kind of explain my approach there.
There's these two entities
in the model here,
attribute entity and attribute cluster.
And there's a...
There's a one-to-many between
a cluster and an entry.
And these entities are, right now,
in a demo, they're islands.
No other EOs have relationships to them.
So, my approach to
attribute-level security is,
here's a cluster of attributes.
And that's what's represented
by attribute cluster.
And the cluster is represented by
all the rows in the attribute entity.
One thing I wanted to get away from
was having to have one of these
In this session,
we'll be talking about how to
create a database that allows you to
create all the types of things for
every single row in the database.
Most of the time, if you've got a given
entity of something,
it doesn't matter which
row you're talking about,
these three things you can't see,
and that's just it for
every row in the table.
By default, it works that way.
You've seen the model.
Let me go to the application itself
and show you what these things look
like when they're actually running.
Back down here to Attributes,
and I'll edit the private attributes.
I've given it a name.
That's the entity it's associated with,
in this case, person.
And these are all the
private attributes on person.
So what happens if I go to
persons and I try to edit it?
So I'll try to edit
this fellow named Andy.
[Transcript missing]
This is great.
How come that never happens
when you're practicing?
That never happened once.
Okay.
All right.
I'll just log in again here.
Attributes Private.
Okay.
And I want to take out one of these.
[Transcript missing]
Something's going on that didn't...
So I'll probably have
to restart the thing.
But I don't have time for that, so.
I'll go back to the slides and just
explain what I wanted to show you there.
One thing I've done in
the Enterprise Objects,
I have a method on them that
returns all the attribute clusters.
Right now, it just turns around and gets
all the attribute clusters
on an entity-by-entity basis.
But it's set up that you could establish
a relationship from any given EO.
to this attribute cluster thing
and do this attribute level
security at a row-by-row basis.
Now, I'm not sure when that
would be necessary,
but I've actually had some
customers where this row of
information for the administrator,
no one could see anything no matter what
it was unless they had certain rules.
And then for all these customers,
marketing could see some stuff,
but some other group couldn't
see this other stuff.
And then yet for some even more rows,
if there were users in the system,
the rules were again different.
So that's what I wanted to show
you with the very last step there,
but didn't quite get there.
To sum up this stuff,
I talked about protecting
privacy through SSL,
some custom components, redirection,
detection.
I talked about protecting
resources of various kinds,
and showed a few kinds of authentication.
The kind of authentication
I didn't show was certificate,
but it's in the system.
As far as persistent data integrity,
we talked about using hashing
and encryption and actually what
to do with these secret keys on
your system if you do use them.
And then access control, ACLs, EOs,
and entities.
There's actually quite a bit
more code I'd like to show,
but again, I'm not sure it's best
to show that like this.
I might have to do it more
interactively with you all.
The code behind all this isn't
up on any FTP servers now,
but it should be there, I think,
within a week after the talk.
These are kind of the places
where you can get some more
information about this stuff.
I think this is in the slides
that you'll get copies of,
so I'll just move along to this.
And you've seen that
many times this week.
And you've definitely seen
that many times this week.
So I want to just get to the Q&A.
And I think you know about the beta.
Even if you've been on the beta before,
you've got to get up here
to get on the new one.
And I guess there is still
something left in the lab today.
And I guess that's next.
That's the very last thing
in the developer conference.
Okay.
I think you've seen that stuff before,
Bob and Tony.